HP Smart Storage Administrator CLI for Linux environments
Version 2.0-23.0 (linuxX64)
7/29/2014

Description
-----------

   The HP Smart Storage Administrator CLI (HPSSACLI) is a commandline-based
   disk configuration program for Smart Array Controllers.
  
* All other product names mentioned herein may be trademarks of their 
  respective companies.

Support
-------

Supported Operating Systems

  SuSE Linux Enterprise Server 10 (x86_64)
  SuSE Linux Enterprise Server 11 (x86_64)
  Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5 (x86_64)
  Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6 (x86_64) with the "Compatibility Package"
     installed to include the 32-bit libraries.
  Debian Sarge 64 bit
  Debian Etch (amd64)
  
  * All these platforms need to have the following driver upgrades:  
    CISS driver version 2.4.50 or later

  These drivers and Fibre Channel HBA drivers are available from 
  http://www.hp.com.

Supported Controllers

  Smart Array P410i Controller
  Smart Array P411 Controller
  Smart Array P212 Controller
  Smart Array P712m Controller
  Smart Array B110i SATA RAID
  Smart Array P812 Controller
  Smart Array P220i Controller
  Smart Array P222 Controller
  Smart Array P420 Controller
  Smart Array P420i Controller
  Smart Array P421 Controller
  Smart Array P822 Controller
  Smart Array P721m Controller
  Dynamic Smart Array B320i RAID
  Dynamic Smart Array B120i RAID

  Smart Array P430 Controller
  Smart Array P431 Controller
  Smart Array P731m Controller
  Smart Array P230i Controller
  Smart Array P530 Controller
  Smart Array P531 Controller
  Smart Array P830 Controller
  Smart Array P830i Controller
  
  Smart Array P240i Controller
  Smart Array P440 Controller
  Smart Array P440i Controller
  Smart Array P441 Controller
  Smart Array P840 Controller
  Smart HBA H240 Controller
  Smart HBA H240i Controller
  Smart HBA H241 Controller
  Smart HBA H244 Controller
  
  Dynamic Smart Array B110i
  Dynamic Smart Array B120i
  Dynamic Smart Array B320i
  Dynamic Smart Array B140i

Installing & Running the HP Smart Storage Administrator CLI
--------------------------------------------------------------

  Installation:
    HPSSACLI is distributed using Red Hat Package Manager (RPM) packages and
    .deb packages for Debian. 
    If there is an older version of HPSSACLI installed on the system, please
       use "rpm -e hpssacli" to remove it first. Use "rpm -i <file name>" to
       install the application.
    Please type "man rpm" for other details regarding RPM.
    NOTE: On Debian systems, a ".deb" package file can be installed using the
    "dpkg -i hpssacli.xxx.deb" command.  The dpkg -r hpssacli command
    is used to remove the package.
    The software resides in /opt/hp/hpssacli and the executable 
    name is hpssacli which is located in /usr/sbin.

    When attempting to run HPSSACLI on any HP-supported version of Linux, it is
    highly recommended that you install the latest version of the HP ProLiant
    Smart Array Controller driver for your intended Linux operating system.
    Drivers may be obtained by clicking on "Support & Drivers" from HP's
    website at:  http://www.hp.com

  For Debian 64 bit:
     dpkg -i --force-architecture <file name>. hpssacli requires the libunwind
     bit package to be installed.

    
  Run the HPSSACLI:
  
    Make sure that you have gone through the following checklist:
    . You run hpssacli as root.

    To start the application:
    If /usr/sbin is already added in your path, just type:
    "hpssacli".
    More options can be found by typing "hpssacli help".  Also see the "Using
    HPSSACLI" section of this document, located after Feedback.

  Exiting HPSSACLI:
    1. To exit the HPSSACLI, type "exit" while at the CLI command console.

  
Additional Notes
----------------

  
  1.  After creating or deleting logical drives with HPSSACLI, under some
      special circumstances, the device name mapping might change after you
      first reboot the system. Also, Linux might see previously not visible
      logical drives after rebooting. This name mapping problem is common to
      all SCSI devices on Linux. 
  2.  Do not insert or remove a controller driver module when hpssacli is
      running.
  3.  Please stop the HP Storage Agents when deleting logical drives
      since HP Storage Agents keeps all logical drives open.
  4.  If all physical drives on a controller fail or are removed, software keys
      will not be saved to the controller.  
  5.  HPSSACLI may appear unresponsive during heavy array controller I/O
      conditions, such as during a partition format or a logical drive rebuild.
  6.  HPSSACLI will not prevent the deletion of logical drives on fibre
      controllers that have mounted partitions.
  7.  When using Linux as the host operating system, if a Smart Array
      controller has 16 or more volumes configured, deleting any volume in
      HPSSACLI will not update the /proc/partitions to reflect the deletion of
      the device node associated with that volume. Rebooting the server will
      cause the update to happen. Note that there is also a limitation that
      only the first 16 volumes configured will be available to the operating
      system.
  8.  On RHEL5 systems, for this version of the HPSSACLI version 3.6.18-10 or
      newer of the HP ProLiant Smart Array Controller Driver for Red Hat
      Enterprise Linux 5 (x86, x86-64) is required. Drivers may be obtained by
      clicking on “Support & Drivers” from HP’s website at:  http://www.hp.com


Notes for HPSSA Scripting
-----------------------
* HPSSA scripting (HPSSASCRIPTING) now uses a new engine to auto configure
  volumes. When using the AUTO mode, it will attempt to configure two volumes;
  an OS volume and a Data volume. The OS volume will be RAID1, while the Data
  volume will be the highest possible RAID up to 6, depending on the number of
  disks and RAID modes supported by the controller. Spares may be automatically
  allocated. All user input in the input config file is ignored in AUTO mode.
  The actual volumes created will depend on the controller, the number and size
  of disks and the status of license keys in the controller.
* In scripting input/output, 2 disk mirrors are considered RAID1, 4 disk and
  higher mirrors are RAID10. For compatibility, input scripts still accept
  RAID1 for 4+ disk mirrors, however we recommend moving to the new argument
  terminology as soon as possible.
* ARRAY and VOLUME arguments in configure mode can be specified as "Next",
  which will use the next available ID.
* DRIVE arguments can be a number or wildcard, e.g. "*" or "2". In the first
  example, all available drives will be used, in the second two drives will be
  used.
* The CONTROLLER argument can be FIRST. Controllers are sorted after discovery,
  the order being: internal before external, in ascending slot order. This
  ensures that the input CONTROLLER=FIRST will target an internal controller
  (SLOT=0) or the controller in the lowest PCI slot.
* To improve performance, use the REPEAT keyword when creating multiple
  identical logical drives.


Feedback
--------

  For support for HPSSACLI or Smart Array controllers, please visit the web at 
    http://support.hp.com.